---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

This README.txt file was generated on 2024-05-23 by Liane Chen, Charlie
Curtin, Kristina Glass, and Hazel Vaquero

**GENERAL INFORMATION**

1\. Title of the Project: Climate Adaptation Solutions Accelerator
through School Community Hubs

2\. Author Information

A. Principal Investigator Contact Information Name: Liane Chen, Charlie
Curtin, Kristina Glass, and Hazel Vaquero

Institution: University of California Santa Barbara Bren School of
Environmental Science & Management

Address: Bren Hall, 2400 University of California, Santa Barbara, CA
93117 Email: [liane\@ucsb.edu](mailto:liane@ucsb.edu){.email},
[charlescurtin\@ucsb.edu](mailto:charlescurtin@ucsb.edu){.email},
[kristinaglass\@ucsb.edu](mailto:kristinaglass@ucsb.edu){.email},
[hazelvaquero\@ucsb.edu](mailto:hazelvaquero@ucsb.edu){.email}

B. Associate or Co-investigator Contact Information Name: Dr. Simone
Pulver Institution: University of California Santa Barbara,
Environmental Studies Program Address: 4001 Bren Hall, 2400 University
of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93117 Email:
[pulver\@ucsb.edu](mailto:pulver@ucsb.edu){.email}

C. Alternate Contact Information Name: Dr. Sarah Anderson

Institution: University of California Santa Barbara Bren School of
Environmental Science & Management

Address: 4510 Bren Hall, 2400 University of California, Santa Barbara,
CA 93117

Email:
[sanderson\@bren.ucsb.edu](mailto:sanderson@bren.ucsb.edu){.email}

d.  Alternate Contact Information Name: Dr. Danielle Harlow

Institution: University of California Santa Barbara The Gevirtz School

Address: Education 3129 Gevirtz Graduate School of Education, University
of California-Santa Barbara, CA 93106

Email:
[danielle.harlow\@ucsb.edu](mailto:danielle.harlow@ucsb.edu){.email}

3\. Date of data collection or obtaining (single date, range,
approximate date) \<suggested format YYYY-MM-DD. If multiple data files,
list it accordingly\>:

Hazards Data

-   FEMA Flood NFHL V3.2: 2024-03-13

-   Wildfire Hazard Potential for the United States (270-m) version 2023
    (4th Edition): 2024-04-12

-   Coastal Storm Modeling System: 2024-04-02

-   Cal-Adapt:

    -   Maximum Daily Temperature: 2024-03-13

    -   Maximum Daily Precipitation: 2024-03-13

California Department of Education School Boundaries Data

-   California Schools 2022-2023: 2024-03-05

-   California School District Area 2022-2023

-   CalMatters Disaster Days: 2024-04-1

4\. Geographic location of data collection:

California, CA:

-   Cal-Adapt

-   Coastal Storm Modeling

-   California Schools 2022-2023

-   California School District Areas

-   CalMatters Disaster Days

-   FEMA NFHL

National:

-   Wildfire Hazard Potential for the United States (270-m) version 2023
    (4th Edition):

5\. Information about funding sources that supported the collection of
the data:

**SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION**

1\. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data:

Open Source:

-   FEMA Flood NFHL V3.2

-   Wildfire Hazard Potential for the United States (270-m) version 2023
    (4th Edition)

-   Coastal Storm Modeling System

-   Cal-Adapt:

    -   Maximum Daily Temperature

    -   Maximum Daily Precipitation

School Boundaries Data

-   California Schools 2022-2023

-   California School District Area 2022-2023

-   CalMatters Disaster Days

2\. Links to location of data:

-   FEMA Flood NFHL V3.2: <https://msc.fema.gov/portal/advanceSearch>

-   Wildfire Hazard Potential for the United States (270-m) version 2023
    (4th Edition):
    <https://www.fs.usda.gov/rds/archive/catalog/RDS-2015-0047-4>

-   Coastal Storm Modeling System:
    <https://ourcoastourfuture.org/hazard-map>

-   Cal-Adapt: <https://ucanr-igis.github.io/caladaptr>

    -   Maximum Daily Temperature

    -   Maximum Daily Precipitation

School Boundaries Data

-   California Schools 2022-2023:
    <https://gis.data.ca.gov/datasets/CDEGIS::california-schools-2022-23/about>

-   California School District Area 2022-2023:
    <https://gis.data.ca.gov/maps/CDEGIS::california-school-district-areas-2022-23/about>

-   CalMatters Disaster Days:
    <https://disasterdays.calmatters.org/california-school-closures>

6\. Recommended citation for the project:

**DATA & FILE OVERVIEW**

1\. File List: \<list all files (or folders, as appropriate for dataset
organization) contained in the dataset, with a brief description of
their content\>

2\. Relationship between files, if important:

3\. Additional related data collected that was not included in the
current data package:

4\. Are there multiple versions of the dataset? \<A. If yes, name of
file(s) that was updated: i. Why was the file updated? ii. When was the
file updated?\>

**METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION**

1\. Description of methods used for collection/generation of data:
\<Include links or references to publications or other documentation
containing experimental design or protocols used in data collection\>

2\. Methods for processing the data: \<describe how the submitted data
were generated from the raw or collected data\>

3\. Instrument- or software-specific information needed to interpret the
data: \<include full name and version of software, and any necessary
packages or libraries needed to run scripts\>

4\. Standards and calibration information, if appropriate:

5\. Environmental/experimental conditions:

6\. Describe any quality-assurance procedures performed on the data:

7\. People involved with sample collection, processing, analysis and/or
submission:

**DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR:**

$$FILENAME$$ \<repeat this section for each dataset, folder or file, as
appropriate\>

1\. Number of variables:

2\. Number of cases/rows:

3\. Variable List: \<list variable name(s), description(s), unit(s)and
value labels as appropriate for each\>

4\. Missing data codes: \<list code/symbol and definition\>

5\. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used:
